International Student Services - Scholars & Student Interns
Skip to main content
Skip to Main Content
Search:
Terra Dotta
New Students
Current Students
Scholars & Student Interns
Health Insurance
Resources
Events & Programs
Connect with ISSS
Meet the Staff
Click here for important updates about the Spring 2023 semester!
Scholars & Student Interns
Printer friendly page
The J-1 Exchange Visitor Program was created by the U.S. Department of State to promote mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries through educational and cultural exchanges. Participants approved to participate in the program will enter the U.S. as Exchange Visitors on a J-1 visa status. J-1 Categories Texas A&M University (TAMU) sponsors four categories under the J-1 Exchange Visitor program:
Student Intern: Objectives are for foreign college and university students to come to the United States to gain exposure to U.S. culture and to receive hands-on experience. Student interns may participate in an internship program for a minimum of 3 weeks and up to 12 months for each foreign degree/major.
Short-Term Scholar: Objectives can be to lecture, observe, consult, train, or demonstrate special skills. Short-term scholars will come to the U.S. for a short visit and have no plans to continue beyond the 6-month limit. Visiting Short-term scholars may stay in the U.S. anywhere from 1 day to 6 months.
Professor: The primary purpose is to teach, lecture, observe, or consult. The professor may also engage in research and participate in occasional lectures if authorized by the program sponsor. Visiting Professors may participate in the program for a minimum of 3 weeks and up to a total of 5 years, which includes transfers between exchange visitor programs.
Research Scholar: This category is for an individual whose primary purpose is to perform research, observe, or consult in connection with a research project. Visiting Research Scholars may participate in the program for a minimum of 3 weeks and up to a total of 5 years, which includes transfers between exchange visitor programs. They may not change their objective in the U.S.
Prior participation in a J program may affect your ability to participate in future J-1 programs. Contact International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) at j1scholars@tamu.edu with any questions.
Scholars & Student Interns
ISS Travel and COVID Updates110 Pavilion, Texas A&M University | 979-845-1824 | iss@tamu.edu | Campus Map | Mental Health Resources | Campus Safety
Texas A&M University  |
Web Accessibility  |
Site Policies  |
Contact
Site map